# Dearwave

Dearwave is an open-source software to enable a decentralized scientific publishing and evaluating process. Dearwave uses blockchain technology as the backend infrastructure to ensure its transparency, fidelity and decentralized operation mode. 

## Blockwave

Blockwave is the project name of Dearwave’s blockchain backend framework, which enables fast development of a dearwave-like smart contract with the following building blocks.

Blockwave is developed by a joined team from [moac.io]() and [dearwave.org]().

### Objects/entities/concepts

* Science document (SciDoc): A digital object that deliver scientific discoveries or engineering innovations. SciDoc can be digitized in various file format: including but not limited to pdf, multimedia, txt, datafile, coding snippet, script, code, meta-data, etc., and any combination of aforementioned files as well. Each SciDoc has a unique SciDoc ID to identify and traceback. Each and every SciDoc is considered as a finalized formal documentation that is in its final version and ready to be read and reviewed. So, SciDoc does not need file versioning.
  Will save SciDoc into centralized or decentralized file system, and save SciDoc hash in to MOAC blockchain for verification.

* Reviewer (also called “reader”): Everyone on the network, it can even include the author(s) of the SciDoc.
  Each reviewer has a unique blockchain address as system identity.

* Endorsement: A process that reviewers can transfer credits or points to a SciDoc submitted by others based on their own judgements of the importance of the SciDoc. Endorsement power/strength are measured by numeric variables. Endorsement power is the total points/credits a review has, so it is always >=0. Endorsement strength is a number of points a review decide to transfer to a SciDoc. Endorsement strength’s value can be positive or negative.
  Will save Endorsement data onto MOAC blockchain.

* Node (User): Both reviewer and SciDoc submitters are considered as unique nodes in the network. Each node has a unique node ID (User Address from MOAC) to identify and traceback.
  Refer Reviewer

* Node (User) ranking: A vector calculated based on overall quality of a node’s activities on the network.
  Randing will be dynamically calculated in front end.

* SciDoc ranking: A vector to determine how much visibility a SciDoc deserves. It is calculated based on the endorsement points that are accumulated on the SciDoc.
  Randing will be dynamically calculated in front end.

### Feature requirements

* Assign each SciDoc a unique SciDoc ID.
* Assign each node (user) a unique node ID (generated by MOAC API for a unqie MOAC address).
* Submit SciDoc to a chain; add to the chain; add to sub-chains.
* Randomly select reviewers for a given SciDoc with configurable selection criteria (e.g., based on a threshold of the ranking of a node). 
  Random number seed can be generated by a smart contract.
* Append/link new SciDoc to any existing SciDoc. Retrieve depth of a given SciDoc with respect to its root SciDoc.
  Structure will be saved in a data structure in smart contract.
* Initiate an endorsement by a reviewer; reviewer choose a endorsement strength to support a given SciDoc; transition endorsement strength from a reviewer to a SciDoc; deduct absolute value of the endorsement strength from the reviewer;  append the endorsement as a SciDoc to the one being reviewed.
* Option for reviewers to choose to hide their names on specific endorsements.
* Grant points to a node by the platform.

### Data storage structure

System use both smart contract on MOAC blockchain for data persistancy and a centrealized db for application performance to store data.

#### Data on MOAC blockchain

* User (Reviewer, Node)
* SciDoc Hash
* Endorsement
* SciDoc Tree Structure

#### Data fileds in centralized db

[to be done]

### Email-list

To receive release notes, community news and development updates by sending an email (with title: "blockwave is awesome") to: [wave@dearwave.org]()